.\"
.ig
Copyright (C) 2019 Pierre Jean Fichet
<pierrejean dot fichet at posteo dot net>

Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
..
.\" DA Pierre-Jean Fichet
.\" DS Utroff tsql manual
.\" DT Utroff tsql manual
.\" DK utroff tsql troff nroff sqlite
.
.
.
.TH TSQL 1 2019-07-02
.
.
.
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBTsql\fR − Executes sqlite statements from a troff document.
.
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB@BINDIR@/tsql\fR
[\fB−c\fR <\fIcontrol_character\fR>]
< \fIfile\fR | tbl | troff | pdf > file.pdf
.
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fITsql\fR executes the sqlite statements found in the input file
and format their result for troff.
.
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\&\fB−c\fR \fIcontrol_character\fR
Define the control character. Default is '\fI.\fR'.
.
.
.
.SH MACROS
.PP
In the troff document, macros are used to configure \fBtsql\fR and
wrap the sqlite statements.
.TP
\&\fBsqldb\fR <\fIdatabase\fR>
Opens the database \fIdatabase\fR and executes statements on it.
If \fIdatabase\fR does not exist, it will be created.
Several \fBsqldb\fR can be indicated: \fBtsql\fR will then close the
current database and open the new one instead. The keyword
\fI:memory:\fR can be used to define an in memory database.
.TP
\&\fBsqlbeg\fR
Sqlite statements begin on the next line, until \fBsqlend\fR.
\fBsqlbeg\fR Formats the result of the query using \fBtblrow\fR and
\fBtblcol\fR that neatroff macro \fItbl.tmac\fR understands.
.TP
\&\fBsqltbl\fR [<\fItab\fR>]
Sqlite statements begins on the next line, until \fBsqlend\fR.
\fBsqltbl\fR formats the result of the query for the pre-processor
\fBtbl\fR.
The optional <\fItab\fR> arguments defines the character used
as separator (it should conform with the tab(x) global option
of \fBtbl\fR).
.TP
\&\fBsqlds\fR <\fIstring_name\fR>
An sqlite query begins on the next line, until \fBsqlend\fR.
\fBsqlds\fR will format the result as a troff string definition:
.PP
.EX
\fB.\fR\fBds\fR \fBstring_name\fR \fIquery result\fR
.EE
.TP
\&\fBsqlnr\fR <\fIregister_name\fR>
An sqlite query begins on the next line, until \fBsqlend\fR.
\fBsqlnr\fR will format the result as a troff number register
definition:
.PP
.EX
\fB.\fR\fBnr\fR \fBregister_name\fR \fIquery_result\fR
.EE
.
.
.
.SH EXTENSIONS
.PP
The following functions are added to the sqlite language:
.TP
\&\fBsqrt(\fR\fIi\fR\fB)\fR
Computes the square root of \fIi\fR.
.TP
\&\fBpower(\fR\fIi, j\fR\fB)\fR
Computes \fIi\fR power \fIj\fR.
.
.
.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.EX
\fB.\fR\fBsqldb\fR :memory:
\fB.\fR\fBTS\fR
allbox;
c c .
\fB.\fR\fBsqltbl\fR
create table T (id integer primary key, name text);
insert into T (name) values ('Pierre'), ('Paul'), ('Jacques');
select * from T;
\fB.\fR\fBsqlend\fR
\fB.\fR\fBTE\fR
.EE
.
.
.
.SH FILES
.PP
\fI@BINDIR@/tsql\fR
.
.
.
.SH LICENSE
.PP
\fITsql\fR and this man page are distributed under the
isc license.
.
.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Pierre-Jean Fichet.
